Hello, this is Sohini Banerjee. Today I am going to start the subject Project Management and how I connect myself to this role.
I was, I am and don't know may be will be a good debater which I can say with confidence because I have got a lot of good comments on my public speaking and my capability to put forward logical arguments in front of the public. It is sounding good right!!! but there is a huge prep before standing on stage and doing arguments with the opponent.
First, I take a notebook and a pen and start writing the names of eligibles who can be with me to assist me during the competition if and only if it is a group debate. You may be curious about why I am the one who is selecting the eligibles this is because I am the one who is the most excited and determinant to participate in the competition . Now after selecting the names of eligibles I call them through phone and ask them whether they are eager to participate in the competition , in my previous two cases that were in college actually, one of the three answered yes and two of them denied. See they are all eligibles but I thought due to lack of confidence they are denying to participate. So, if this happens my work is to encourage them, make them realize their potential, if I don't do that then, greater than my loss, it will be the loss of the platform which is going to loose the two eligible participants who can give much better or even outstanding performance. So, I think I will be proud of myself if I can convince them to participate in the debate. Luckily they were convinced and I started doing the prep.
My next work is to give them the topic and give them the two days to read it sincerely. After the given time, obviously me (the most excited one) called them and asked whether to be in for or against the motion. If their thoughts and my thoughts merge well and decide to be for or against the motion depending on the topic, we would come in our final decision of our motion prep.

Finally we got prepared and rocked the platform with our logical thinking and Confidence which made our opponent fall behind. That was my master plan to win every public appearance or engagement especially debate competitions ;) .

My debate competition prep up is a project management work for me. In project management there are concepts like project initiations, planning and executions and many more but I could definitely live all of these terms while working on this use case: I initiated the project my keeping in mind the eligibility of the participants and encouraged them to participate, I planned the project by giving them the topic and connecting their thoughts with mine, lastly we executed the plan with team and brought the trophy. This collaboration reflects my project coordination and group leadership.

See you in the next blogs and continue sharing thoughts about Project Management Skills and its connections with daily life.

#ProjectManagement #PM #Skills #IT #Coorporate #Managament
